---
title: "Comparison of Perimeter Delineation Methods for Remote Sensing Fire Spot Data in Near/Ultra-Real-Time Applications"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/Comparison of Perimeter Delineation Methods for Remote Sensing Fire Spot Data in Near/Ultra-Real-Time Applications
date: 2024-07-01 # Date of publication
type: "Journal" # Options: Journal, Conference, Book, Presentation, Unpublished
status: "Published" # Options: Published, Submitted, Unpublished
year: 2024 # Publication year
paperurl: "https://www.mdpi.com/2571-6255/7/7/226" # Link to the publication file (if available)
---
<p style="text-align: justify;">
Authors: Hanif Bhuian, Hatef Dastour, Mohammad Razu Ahmed, Quazi K Hassan 
<br>
<p style="text-align: justify;">
Abstract 
  <br>
Forest fires cause extensive damage to ecosystems, biodiversity, and human property, posing significant challenges for emergency response and resource management. The accurate and timely delineation of forest fire perimeters is crucial for mitigating these impacts. In this study, methods for delineating forest fire perimeters using near-real-time (NRT) remote sensing data are evaluated. Specifically, the performance of various algorithms—buffer, concave, convex, and combination methods—using VIIRS and MODIS datasets is assessed. It was found that increasing concave α values improves the matching percentage with reference areas but also increases the commission error (CE), indicating overestimation. The results demonstrate that combination methods generally achieve higher matching percentages, but also higher CEs. These findings highlight the trade-off between improved perimeter accuracy and the risk of overestimation. The insights gained are significant for optimizing sensor data alignment techniques, thereby enhancing rapid response, resource allocation, and evacuation planning in fire management. This research is the first to employ multiple algorithms in both individual and synergistic approaches with NRT or ultra-real-time (URT) active fire data, providing a critical foundation for future studies aimed at improving the accuracy and timeliness of forest fire perimeter assessments. Such advancements are essential for effective disaster management and mitigation strategies.
<br>

[**Download Full Paper**]({{ page.paperurl }})
