---
title: "Determining the Social and Environmental Impacts of Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Application in Bangladesh"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/sample-book
date: 2019-02-01
type: "Books"  # This must match the type in the _config.yml
---
<p style="text-align: justify;">
Book Name: THE WORLD OF GEOGRAPHY; Edition: First Edition; Chapter: Chapter Three; Publisher: Foundation of Practising Geographers.


**Abstract**
South Asian region is well endowed with renewable energy sources such as biomass, wind and solar. The energy demand in this region is expected to grow at annual rate of 5% with household and industry sector as major contributors. Bangladesh is an energy deficit country. Per capita power generation is 236 kWh which is one of the lowest in the world. High growth of population and lack of proper technology have been creating severe stress on Bangladesh’s low conventional energy sources. Fortunately, Bangladesh emerges as the fastest solar home system (SHS) growth country in the world. As such, the aim of this study is to determine the environmental and socio-economic impacts of SHS in the off-grid rural area of Bangladesh. This study is conducted based on both primary and secondary data. The primary data is collected through questionnaire survey from 100 households and 20 small shops using solar energy. Secondary data sources are also used to supplement primary data. The findings of this study demonstrate that people have been benefited environmentally and economically by using solar energy other than using firewood, and fossil fuel like kerosene. Recommendations have been provided on how to mitigate the SHS induced waste which has serious consequence on the environment as well as human health.
